# cobol-examples
Some examples of code written in COBOL

These work nicely in GnuCOBOL 3.0.  (For more information, search the web for OpenCOBOL or GnuCOBOL.  GnuCOBOL can be installed without too much trouble on Linux, Mac, or Windows.  That being said, installation is not completely trivial.  On Windows, it works well in CygWin, and it can probably be installed using MinGW/MSYS.)

Group 1: Solving triangles.  Fixed point decimal arithmetic (with four places to the right of the decinal point) is used throughout.  These examples use some CODASYL extensions (intrinsic functions), so you'll probably need GnuCOBOL 3.0 or greater for these to work.
+ *sss.cob* - SSS configuration - given the length of its three sides, solve the triangle using the Law of Cosines.  This example uses intrinsic functions *acos* (arccos - inverse cosine) and *sqrt* (square root) and the intrinsic constant *pi*.  NB: Complaints about the (restricted!) "GO TO" used in validating the input will be ignored.  (It would not be difficult to eliminate by adding a flag and changing the PERFORM statements to PERFORM UNTIL, but maintaining the flag would result in slightly more complex code.  Code could be simplified using CALLed subprograms.)
+ *sas.cob* - SAS configuration - given two sides and the contained angle, solve the triangle using the Law of Cosines. The angle may be given in radians or in degrees.  (The Law of Cosines is used in two different ways here.  In addition to the intrinsics *acos*, *sqrt* and *pi* used as in *sss.cob*, the intrinsic *cos* is used to find the cosine of an angle.  A Law of Sines solver is included in the code, but it is not used here.)
